event editor.

Like with hyperlinks there should be a quick way to create simple, common,
event-based timing and a full-fledged way to create less common event arcs,
modify and delete existing arcs, etc.

I'll skip the simple way for now. Sjoerd's structure view document has some
ideas on it, basically drag/drop nodes onto "begin boxes" of other nodes.

The full problem is more difficult, because there is so much information.
The first level is probably rather easy: the "begin" (and similar for "end") property of
a node is shown as a list, with textual descriptions of the events in them,
with add/edit/delete buttons.

This design means we now need an editor for a single begin event. This is still
not trivial, because events come in 8 flavors, all with diffferent arguments.
We could have dialog with a 8-way radio- or popup-choice, with a lot of additional
parameter fields that get enabled/disabled depending on the radio choice.

The 8 flavors, by the way, with their parameters are:

indefinite		no parameters
offset			offset
begin/end		node or prev, offset
event			node or region or area, offset
repeat			node, repeatindex, offset
accesskey		character, offset
marker			node, markername, offset
wallclock		date, time, timezone

Selecting the node is going to be troublesome too, the best way is probably a popup
that shows the current value (if there is one) and the last few selections in the
structure view. This popup would change when sctructure view focus changes.

We could make this less unwieldy by saying that node/region/area based events have to be
"defined" before they can be used. We now need two smaller dialogs, one to create
a source event and a modified version of the dialog above.

The "create event" dialog allows you to create the following events for a node,
with the following parameters:
- begin/end/activate/etc
- repeat		index
- marker		markername
Regions and areas would have scaled-down versions of this dialog.

The "edit begin"/"edit end" dialogs would now have fewer choices:
- wallclock		date, time, timezone
- accesskey		key
- indefinite
- none
- prev			begin/end
- event			popup with events previously created

All but "indefinite" and "wallclock" would also enable the offset box.

Deleting events would be a problem, but if events are easy to create I think a
simple "delete unused events" is probably good enough.
