Structure of the "indir" section on the website
-----------------------------------------------

URLs starting with http://www.oratrix.com/indir/ are hardcoded into all the
applications we've shipped. These URLs should always remain valid. Moreover, it
is probably a good idea if these URLs are used for nothing else, i.e. only for
initial references generated by the software.

One of the design goals of the indir URLs was that they could be looked up in
a database by an active webserver, which would then server the right page. Now
that we use Zope this is probably how indir should be implemented. The previous
implementation, where indir was a tree full of htt-redirect documents, was a workaround
for the fact that we used a static webserver.

The structure of the indir URLs is as follows:
http://www.oratrix.com/indir/PRODUCT-PLATFORM-VERSION/DOCUMENT

There is one silly exception to this rule:
http://www.oratrix.com/indir/images points to a static directory with two images that are used
in the template webpage when you export a document for G2. These images are called
GetGRiNS.gif and freeplayer_g2.gif.

The values for the fields (UPPER CASE in the url's above) are as follows:

PRODUCT
	One of "grinspro", "grinslite" "grins-SMIL" or "grinsplay". Internally "grinssnap" has also
	been used, but this probably hasn't escaped to the outside world.
	Note that the choice of using "grins-SMIL" was a stupid one as it makes parsing the
	string difficult.
PLATFORM
	One of "win32" or "mac". The Sun and SGI products were discontinued before the
	indir stuff was implemented. "linux2" was never shipped yet.
VERSION
	The full version string without the build number. I.e. "1.5", "1.5.1", "2.0b1", "2.0b2",
	etc.
DOCUMENT
	[This list might be incomplete]
	
	updatecheck.txt
		If PRODUCT-PLATFORM-VERSION is still the latest version this file is empty.
		If there is a newer version this document should contain the URL of a page (or script)
		that gives information on the new product. When the user shows interest in
		hearing about the new product the following arguments are appended to the URL:
		    ?version=PRODUCT-PLATFORM-VERSION&id=ID
		here PRODUCT-PLATFORM-VERSION is again the current product and ID is the second
		string in the users key. This string is supposed to uniquely identify the key and therefore
		the user. The script behind the URL that was in the updatecheck.txt page can use
		these two arguments to show, for example, different pricing based on the product
		the user currently owns, etc.
	help/buy.html
		This should go to a page where the user can buy the product. If the product is
		outdated it should probably go to a page that says "this is an outdated product,
		it is superseded by (hyperlink)blablabla". It is a silly design flaw that this
		page is under the "help" hierrarchy.
	help/eval.html
		This should go to a page where the user can get an evaluation license. Same comments
		as for the buy page.
	help/index.html
		This should go to the main page for the on-line documentation for the product. It
		should probably have a short index by subject, a search field and a list of
		references to other documentation sources (pdf files, etc).
	help/ANYTHINGELSE.html
	    This should go to a specific section of the online documentation. Sections
	    that are used (or have been used) include "Hierarchy", "bandwidth" and "Timeline".
	    An unknown section here should probably go to help/index.html.
	    