GRiNS Editor Version 0.3 Win32 patchlevel 3

Suggestions for Changes/ Queries/Defects

1. Menus do not have "ampersand shortcuts" displaying - Have they been
implemented throughout as they only appear in the Menu titles
currently?
	Sjoerd: Shortcuts need to be implemented.
	Kleanthis: Ampersand shortcuts have been added. 
	For real shortcuts (see 18 below) after patchlevel 5 

2. File Menu - This has the menu item `Charset' is this name
sufficient for a new user who may not be familiar with the different
Character sets available and their use.  It may be better to use the
full name.
	Sjoerd: This seems to be an attempt to deal with different
	character sets in a document.  When a text file is retrieved,
	its charset should be obeyed (I don't know whether it is), and
	there should be a way of specifying the charset of immediate
	text nodes.  But this is not the way.  This needs thought, and 
	probably some system-independent code.
	Kleanthis: The `Charset' menu item has been removed. We will thing 
	about it. It was entered temporary to solve an urgent user's need. 
	(patchlevel 5)

3. File Menu - "Open" menu item takes the User to the dialog `Open
Location'.  This refers to the file so should read `Open file', the
location of which either needs to be inserted manually or can be
obtained by Browsing.
	Sjoerd: It can be argued that the label is not very clear, but
	the intention is that you specify a URL, not a file.  If you
	want to specify a file, you need to use URL syntax.  The
	Browse... dialog takes care of the conversion (or at least it
	should).
	Kleanthis: The dialog's title has been replaced with the more 
	generic 'Open' and a help string was added (patchlevel 5)

4. File Menu - New Menu item - I find it slightly confusing that have
to select a template before I can be given a new document.  (However
this may be clarified if I were to read the Tutotrial and/or
documentation:-)) Also can the user define their own Template???
	Sjoerd: There should be a way to say, I don't want to use a
	template, although using the empty.smil or empty.cmif template 
	accomplishes that.
	Kleanthis: I agree with Jackie. I think that templates should be 
	opened as special files, having the same result as now, but 
	through 'Open'. For an example see how Word opens templates.
	 
5. File menu - Preferences- GRiNS Preferences dialog - The `Preferred
language' requests 2 characters.  This can be come confusing as not
everyone uses `Gr, Fr, It, Sp' etc some people use `D, F, I, E' for
the countries it might be better for some sort of confirmation of the
language actually selected.  eg. typing `Gr' displays `German' in the
field.  A bit of a pain but it avoids confusion.  OR maybe this should
be a selectable list box of the countries.
	Sjoerd: This uses an international standard. But I suppose
	there could be a more user-friendly interface to the
	standard.  If we do anything, it should be done
	system-independently.
	Kleanthis: I think that confirmation is better. And, maybe a help 
	button pointing to the html topic with the international standard used.

6. View Menu - `Select syncarc' menu item I think this should read
`Select sync arc' with a space to match the later Menu item `Display
sync arcs'.
	Sjoerd: I agree.
	Kleanthis: Done (patchlevel 5)

7. Layout View - Can the `X' on the top right be made bold so that it
looks more like a close button for the View.
	Sjoerd: I agree.  Can the layout view be made more like the
	other views with the same type of window border?
	Kleanthis: The X can not be made directly bold without affecting the dialog.
	It can be done using a special (custom draw) button but later. 
	This view is not like the other views for the same reasons that 
	a toolbar is not like the other windows. 
	This 'view' is a kind of a toolbar for the player view.
	In any case I need more 'votes' against to change it.

	

8. Layout View - Choosing `New...' in the Layouts section gives the
dialog titled `Name for Layout' - I think the dialog Title should read
`Layout name' and the dialog text should read `Layout name:'with the
`:' to match the dialog `New channel'.
	Sjoerd: Maybe the dialog should be called "New layout" and the 
	prompt should be "Layout name:".  The new channel dialog
	should then be called "New channel" and the prompt should be
	"Channel name:".
	Kleanthis: Done as Sjoerd (patchlevel>=5)

9. Layout View - Choosing `New..'in the Layout channels section gives
the `New Channel' dialog.  The dialog text `Name for channel:' should
read `New channel name:'
	Sjoerd: See above..
	Kleanthis: See above..

10. Doing the following produces a crash ( Windows 98, 48MB RAM, Hard
Drive 1.96 GB, Free 140MB):
Steps to Recreate:
a. Launch the GRiNS Editor
b. Open the file from the GRiNS Demo `Fiets' Directory, number.smi
c. From the View Menu select the Hierarchy View
d. Then from the same menu Select the Hyperlink view
e. From the Anchor list selection on the left of the dialog choose `All'
f. Scroll down to `imageMap.6' and highlight it.
g. From the Anchor list selection on the right choose `All related anchors'
h. From the middle section choose the `Add...' button.

Results:
This displays the Debugging window with the error message and report.
	Sjoerd: No crash in latest (Dec 7) version.
	I did get an illegal operation crash after I did the following 
	additional steps:
	i. Press cancel in hyperlink view.
	j. Click on X at the top-right corner of the GRiNS editor
	   window.
	I have seen similar crashes when exiting the GRiNS editor in
	this same way.
	Kleanthis: I can not reproduce it on NT with patchlevel 5. 
	Since the hyperlink view has been changed since Dec 7 it may be 
	that the problem has been corrected. When exiting GRiNS editor on 
	Win95 (not on NT) the system complained about an 'illegal operation'.
	I think that the problem has been solved now. (patchlevel 5)

11.Doing the following causes a crash:
Steps to Recreate:
a. Launch the Editor.
b. Open the Stroll2c.smil from the Tutorial directory in the GRiNS
   Demos Directory.
c. Select the Hierarchy View from the View Menu
d. From the Tools menu choose the item `Show info...'
e. In the `Info for Node:' dialog, select from the Channel scrollable
   list `New channel...'

Result
This displays the Debugging window with the error message and report.
	Sjoerd: Indeed it does.
	The Motif version of NodeInfoDialog.askchannelname uses
	windowinterface.InputDialog and gives it a named argument
	called "parent".  The Windows version does the same, but
	aparently the Windows versino of InputDialog does not support
	the "parent " argument.
	
	When I terminated this invocation using the X on the pop-up
	debugging window I again got an illegal operatin crash.
	Kleanthis: Yes it was a bug. It has been already corrected (patchlevel>=5)

12. Attributes for node: Dialog
Is it normal to be able to move all the headings on top of each other
by dragging right to left so that eventually no headings are visible?
Pretty silly thing to do, I know, but maybe somebody could do it then
wonder where their text has gone to.  Although, when they re-open the
dialog the headings are all visible once more.  I think if possible the
user should be able to set the spacing of these headings to a
different size to the default but not be able to reduce the size of
the Heading to less than the minimum required to view the complete
Title text.  That way the user can set it up to view all of the
explanations which could be quite long and useful, but no be able to
reduce the Headings so that you can't see them.
	Sjoerd: I agree.
	Kleanthis: I agree but it belongs to a second order of corrections.

13. Tools Menu - Anchors for node: dialog - While there is nothing in
this dialog the Buttons `Edit...' and `Export...' are active.  However,
when they are clicked upon nothing happens.  I think they should be
ghosted until there has been the appropriate selection made to
activate them.  I notice that once a new anchor has been created that
although you can then go back and Edit this the `Export...' button
still seems to produce nothing when clicked upon.  (This could be that
the creation of a new anchor of the type `all' is not suitable for
exportation again I would expect the `Export...' button not to be
available to me until I have the correct type of anchor suitable for
exportation.)
	Sjoerd: Ghosting out the Edit and Export buttons seem to be
	working in the Dec 7 version.
	As to the other Export problem, it looks like clicking the
	button doesn't invoke the callback.  In any case, the dialog
	asking for the external name for the anchor isn't popped up.
	Kleanthis: It was again an 'InputDialog' problem that has been
	corrected. (patchlevel>=5)

14. Doing the following caused a Crash
Steps to recreate:
a. Launch the Editor.
b. Open the Stroll2c.smil from the Tutorial directory in the GRiNS
   Demos Directory.
c. Select the Hierarchy view from the View menu.
d. From the Tools Menu choose Show anchors
e. Create 2 New anchors and Apply the changes to the dialog and then
   choose `OK'.
f. From the Tools Menu choose `Finish Hyperlink to focus...'

Results
The following message is displayed in a `GRiNS' titled dialog
`_MultiChoice requestChoose source anchor' Choose OK gives the usual
Debugging Window.
	Sjoerd: The windowinterface.multchoice function hasn't been
	implemented.
	Kleanthis: Bug corrected. (patchlevel>=5)
	Sjoerd: After the above procedure, click on Cancel to cancel
	finishing the hyperlink creation.  Now this results in a
	crash, presumably because multchoice doesn't return 0 for
	cancel.

15. Choosing `Edit contents...' from the Tools menu gives a Dialog
Titled `Choose' I think there's some text missing it should read
`Choose Editor'.  The dropdown list box in this dialog has `Cancel' as
an item I don't think it should be there.
	Sjoerd: I agree.
	Kleanthis: Done. (patchlevel>=5)

16. Error message about inserting new channel while playing a document
has `OK' and `Cancel' buttons choosing `Cancel' stopped playing and
allowed me to create a new channel.  I though it would `Cancel the
requested action' ie.  creation of the new channel and leave the
section playing.  Dialog had no title just `Message' If in doubt on a
title for a Dialog maybe it's better to use `GRiNS Editor'
	Sjoerd: I agree.  The Cancel action should cancel the request
	to create a new channel.  It seems the
	windowinterface.showquestion function doesn't function
	properly.
	Kleanthis: Bug corrected. (patchlevel>=5)

17. Doing the following causes a Crash
Steps to Recreate:
a. Launch Editor
b. Open the file Stroll2c.smil from the Tutorial directory in the
   GRiNS Demos directory.
c. From the Tool Menu choose Timeline View.
d. In the Timeline view select One of the Two items associated with Image 2.
e. From the Tools Menu choose `Create syncarc from focus...'.
f. Then click on the item now highlighted in yellow.

Results
The Debugging Window appears with the message and report.
	Sjoerd: self.cview seems to be None in ArcInfoDialog.__init__.
	Kleanthis: Bug corrected. (patchlevel>=5)

18. Shortcuts
Main Menu shortcuts should be given for Main features Open, Close,
Exit, Cut, Copy, Paste as well as the Views together with any other
Features that are considered important.
	Kleanthis: I agree but after patchlevel 5

19. General - all dialog boxes should have an ampersand shortcut in
them.  If this extends to the OK and Cancel buttons then it should be
followed consistently through out the application.
	Kleanthis: I agree but after patchlevel 5

20. When two copies of the Editor are running and an item is copied to
the clipboard in one it is not then available for Pasting into the
other Editor that is running too.  Is this a Feature or should it be
available between the two copies of the Editor running? I ask this as
it appears that you can only have one .smil document open at anytime
in the Editor.  If the Copy/Paste facility where available between
running versions then the user could more quickly be able to leverage
information.  There may be another way to do this that I haven't
encountered yet!!
	Sjoerd: Copy/Paste only works within a document.  It is hard
	to do it between documents since the channels in the two
	documents may be different.
	An "intelligent" Paste might be possible.  This paste would
	probably have to remove all channel attributes in all nodes.
	Kleanthis: I think that the Copy/Paste facility must be available 
	between documents in later versions. 


21. Tools Menu - The menu item `Create syncarc from focus...' should
read `Create sync arc from focus...' to maintain consistency with the
other references in the View menu.
	Sjoerd: I agree.
	Kleanthis: Done. (patchlevel>=5)

22. Using a new document with Undefined nodes pasted into the Template
`empty.smil' in the Hierarchy view.  Move to the Timeline view and then
from the Tools menu choose New Node - Under.  This brings up the `Info
for node:' dialog which has the Type: default of `ext'.  When this is
change to `seq' the dialog should resize itself to display the
Content; information which is displayed.  CRASH: Clicking on the `Open'
button at this stage causes the Debugging windows to be displayed and
the application crashes.
	Sjoerd: I haven't been able to reproduce this.
	Kleanthis: Neither me, using patchlevel 5 but there was such a type 
	of bug. (It was actually a Win32-MFC layout bug)

23. Doing the following causes a crash
Steps to Recreate:
a. Lauch the Editor
b. Open the Stroll2c.smil from the Tutorial directory within the GRiNS
   Demos directory.
c. Move to the Hierarchy view
d. From the Tools Directory choose Show anchors...
e. In the Anchors for node: dialog select the new button and in the
   Type; List box select `composite'
f. Type characters into the `ID' field.

Results
This produces the Debugging window with it's message and report.
	Sjoerd: Yes, this produces a crash.  In this case, the
	composite type should not be selectable.  Only the dest-only,
	auto-firing, and whole node types should be selectable at this 
	point.
	Also, the focus on the anchor in the list of anchors seems to
	be lost.  In any case the visual cue is lost.
	Kleanthis: There was a visual hint that these entries were invalid (brackets).
	Now it is also not possible to select them (patchlevel>=5)

24. Doing the following causes a crash
Steps to recreate:
a. Launch the Editor
b. Open the file Stroll6sw.smil (NOTE: This version of the file from
   the WEB Page has the anchors incorrectly specified as "left, top,
   width, height")
c. Open the  Hyperlinks view
d. Set the left `Anchors" to be `All' and the right `Anchors' to be
   `All Related Anchors'
e. In the right Anchors list box select any item.
f. Choose the `Edit...' button in the middle.

Results
This causes the Debugging windws to be displayed with it's message and report.
	Sjoerd: Looks like the same problem as nr. 10 above.  Seems to 
	be fixed in the Dec 7 version.
	Kleanthis: I can not reproduce it on NT with patchlevel 5. 
	Since the hyperlink view has been changed since Dec 7 it may be 
	that the problem has been corrected. 

25. This is only a comment - It seems strange that the user is unable
to Edit the `Source' document in the Editor.  Although the User can use
a Text Editor which is available with the Operating System.  The
document Type is associated with the GRiNS Editor which means that it
will always open in the Editor therefore the Use would have to set up
dragging and dropping the .smil files onto a Text Editor, I use Text
documents all the time and don't have this facility setup on my PC as
I prefer to choose the Editor that I wish to use and this can only be
achieved if the Associated Editor is left undefined.
	Kleanthis: I think that the user must be able to Edit the `Source' 
	in later versions. I understand that this is not easy since in order to 
	keep the other views in sync the application must be in a kind of 
	'Open document' loop while the user edits the documen.
	(I do not understand Jackie's comments about the Operating System editor.
	The source is already displayed in an editor but with its read-only attribute set)

26. Another suggestion - It would be nice to see some right mouse
button facilities even if it were for basics eg.  Cut, Copy, Paste and
possibly the views.  I have become used to using the right mouse button
in Windows for Copying and Pasting.
	Sjoerd: This is implemented in the Dec 7 version.
	Kleanthis: Yes, but the popup menu must contain the more often used
	entries, something that I have not done yet (patchlevel 5)
	 
27. WHY??? In the Editor the user can open more than one document but
must `close' a document to be able to reach the previously opened
one.  WOuld it not be better to allow the user to Select the Document
they wish to work on from the Window menu.  In the Window Menu I could
show the `View' and for which document eg.  Timeline View (stroll4sw),
Hierarchy (stroll6sw) .  This would also help clarify/rectify the
quirkyness of the copying and pasting to the Clipboard.
	Sjoerd: At least in the Dec 7 version you can edit (and look
	at) two or more documents at the same time.
	Kleanthis: I am not sure that I understand the problem. Even 
	before patclevel 1 (testing patchlevel is 3) the editor was able 
	to open multiple documents. If this is the problem Jackie refers 
	to then it may be that a debugging line was forgotten in the code 
	just in this patchlevel. I use a continously evolving version and 
	so I can not be sure about this.

Information Required

Minimum Hardware Specification for running Editor, possible the same
as Premiere or PhotoShop but the amount of memory required may differ.
	Kleanthis: For Win95/Win98 a Pentium CPU at 120MHz with 32MB RAM
	and for NT4/NT5(Win2000) a Pentium CPU at 120MHz with 64MB RAM

What other applications are likely to be running at the same time as
the Editor it maybe useful to test the Editor with some of these
running in the background.
	Kleanthis: Not very important since it is just a matter of 
	what memory the other applications consume and this depends 
	on the document been open. If RAM is exausted then the disk 
	(virtual memory) will be used.

Crash encountered on Sunday

When playing `Martin' in the Kids Demo a crash occurred when the
Timeline View was opened.
	Sjoerd: I couldn't reproduce this one.  I guess it has been
	fixed.
